## Course Description
This course will provide a functional introduction to programming for Web games and similar interactive media. The result will be competency in popular web programming languages (e.g., JavaScript, HTML) and game programming frameworks. This will be demonstrated by the creation of the mechanics for their Web game projects. Topics may include: Web programming syntax, popular Web programming libraries for games, game loop, sprites, interactive GUI programming, and creating the game environment - Prerequisite Definition: To take this course you must: Have taken the following Courses IT1090C min grade C-,IT2040C min grade C-.

### Prerequisites

* IT1090C - Computer Programming I
* IT2040C - Fundamentals of Web Development

If you need a refresher, take a look at the [Beginner Materials](#beginner-materials).


## Credit Hours and Course Format
3 credit hours; online.

## Learning outcomes
1. Put JavaScript code blocks in the body and head of an HTML5 document.
2. Write a user-defined JS function and invoke it.
3. Dynamically write HTML5 content via code with innerHTML and the DOM.
4. Use conditional branching logic (if ..else).
7. Use some of the basic capabilities of the built-in (intrinsic) date and time objects.
8. Use common string and Math functions.
9. Link dynamic content to a CSS style sheet.
10. Create a HTML5 form for user input.
11. Understand how to use JavasScript Regular Expressions in HTML5 Forms.
12. Create a JavaScript application with a modern Dynamic GUI.
13. Create games with Phaser