---
layout: default
title: d. Handling User Input
parent: 3. Rock Paper Scissors
grand_parent: Assignments and Labs
nav_order: 4
nav_exclude: false
---
# Putting it all together

The Resources folder structure should look something like this:
```
resources
├── images
│   └── .gitkeep
├── scripts
│   ├── rock_paper_scissors.js
│   └── index.js  ⬅️
└── styles
    └── styles.css
```
In this step, we will be working on the file marked with the ⬅️

In this final piece of the assignment, we will need to:
* get a handle of all elements of interest. 
* then We will add event listeners to the buttons
* We will call on our RockPaperScissors class methods as needed.

1. create constants `const` of element handlers to the following elements 
  * welcomeScreen for `#welcome-screen`
  * gameScreen for `#game-screen`
  * startGameButton for `#start-game-button`
  * userName for `#username`
  * userSelection for `#user-selection`
  * goButton for `#go-button`
  * scoreParagraph for `#score`
  * gameHistoryParagraph for `#game-history`

  **Example**
  ```js
  const welcomeScreen = document.getElementById(`welcome-screen`);
  ```
  OR
  ```js
  const gameScreen = document.querySelector(`#game-screen`);
  ```

2. instantiate the game object from the `RockPaperScissors` class.

3. Create a placeholder variables `let` for the following:
  * `let username = ''`;
  * `let userScore = 0;`
  * `let cpuScore = 0;`
  * `let gameHistory = []`

4. programmatically, hide the `gameScreen` using Bootstrap's class `d-none`
  ```js
  gameScreen.classList.add("d-none")
  ```

5. add an Event Listener to the `start-game-button` on the click event.
  * get username from the text input and store it in the `username` variable.
  * hide the welcomeScreen and display the gameScreen Instead.
      * tip: you'll be adding and removing the `d-none` class.

6. Create a function named `function updateScoreTally(){...}`
    * it makes use of the globally defined variables `userScore`, `cpuScore`, & `username`.
    * The function will manipulate the `#score` paragraph, modifying it's text content to something like:
        * `<USERNAME>: <USER_SCORE>  v  CPU: <CPU_SCORE>`
        * i.e. if `username` is *Yahya* and the `userScore` is 3 and the `cpuScore` is 5, it would change the scoreParagraph to `Yahya: 3  v  CPU: 5`

7. Create a function named `function updateGameHistory(){...}`
    * it makes use of the globally defined variable `gameHistory`.
    * it clears the current game history paragraph
    * and replaces it with the content of the array.

8. add an Event Listener to the `go-button` on the click event.
  * get the userSelection from the select
  * get the computer selection from the `RockPaperScissors` class
  * determine the winner in this round.
      * remember the function would return `win`, `lose`, or `tie`
  * update `userScore` and `cpuScore` variables
  * add another line entry to the gameHistory array
      * if the username was *Yahya*, then the line entry should be something like:
          * `Yahya selected Scissors, CPU selected Paper: Yahya wins wins`
          * `Yahya selected Rock, CPU selected Paper: CPU wins`
  * create a function named `updateScoreTally` outside of the event handler for this.
  * update the text of `scoreParagraph` using the `updateScoreTally()` function
  * update the `gameHistoryParagraph` using the `updateGameHistory()` function 
